---
title: Roma
year: 2018
language: Spanish
director:
  - Alfonso Cuarón
imdbLink: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt6155172/
wiki: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roma_(2018_film)
tags:
  - Oscars
  - world cinema
---

Walking into this was part of me feeling generally ok with just going to enjoy part of the city on a whim, after some crunch time with work. The Light Box is right on my way home, so it felt great to just take a look at the marquee and decide to go in there to see this movie that I'd been hearing some buzz about. I knew it was directed by Alfonso Cuarón, and that it was produced by Netflix and that it was nominated for an Oscar.

From the very opening credits I knew it was gonna be a visually appealing movie. Watching that water flowing back and forth over the tiled floor of a Mexican manor in beautiful black and white was a _mood_, and it set the pace for the rest of the movie. As is often the case with international film-festival type movies, my mode of engaging with this movie was by taking it in as a series of vignettes where the details I find along the way matter more than the thread holding the thing together. That thread in this movie? I don't know, both the protagonists in the film are women who get left hanging by the fathers of their children, so, I suppose the hardship that women can face because of men is part of it? Maybe it's something about them finding strength in each other as well.

Some fun things about this movie, besides the cinematography

- You get to see a cool in locations. Not only are the landscapes not your everyday cinema fare, but you see a surreal sequence where rag-tag martial arts troupe in the desrt lectured by some sort of self-improvement guru.
- You see posh mansions with some elaborate parties, and also dingy holes in the wall where the poorer people hang out.
- You get to see the many corners of the manor where the upper-class-protagonist-lady lives, and by the end of the movie it sort of feels like home.
- You get to see what a sea-side resort might have looked like in Mexico in 1970s.
- After looking up the movie on wikipedia I found out that the manor the movie mostly takes place in is actually the house accross Alfonso Cuarón's childhood home. I guess the feeling-like home thing wasn't just me.
